<h1> Lets understand the topic first.</h1>
Every part of it, what it means by itself, and then what they mean dans l'ensemble </br>
why french? </br>

*because* （☆ω☆*）｡･:*:･ﾟ★,｡･:*:･ﾟ☆ 

</br>
<h2>SQL</h2>

[SQL (Structured Query Language) is a descriptive computer language designed for updating, retrieving, and calculating data in table-based databases.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/SQL)</br>

basically a language to get and update data in a database
</br></br>



<h2>Semantics</h2>
/sɪˈmantɪks/

noun: semantics;</br>
noun: logical semantics; </br>
noun: lexical semantics</br>

    The branch of linguistics and logic concerned with meaning.
    The two main areas are logical semantics, concerned with matters 
    such as sense and reference and presupposition and implication, 
    and lexical semantics, concerned with the analysis of word 
    meanings and relations between them.
        the meaning of a word, phrase, or text.
        plural noun: semantics
        "such quibbling over semantics may seem petty stuff"

*by google in colaboration with oxford languages*</br>

</br></br>

Kinda abstract and doesn't clear up what 'sql semantics' could possibly mean</br>
Searching for 'SQL semantincs' isn't really helpful as the only close result is this</br>

    The semantics of SQL queries is formally defined by stating a 
    set of rules that determine a syntax-driven translation of an 
    SQL query to a formal model. The target model, called Extended 
    Three Valued Predicate Calculus (E3VPC), is largely based on a 
    set of well-known mathematical concepts. The rules which allow 
    the transformation of a general E3VPC expression to a Canonical 
    Form, which can be manipulated using traditional, two-valued 
    predicate calculus are also given; in this way, problems like 
    equivalence analysis of SQL queries are completely solved.

[*Formal semantics of SQL queries*](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/111197.111212)

</br>

Lets look for something in more familiar teritory</br>

[*Python semantics*](https://jakevdp.github.io/WhirlwindTourOfPython/03-semantics-variables.html)

The above article explains, that for example, all python variables are pointers. </br>
Everything is an object. </br>
And numerical types have a real and imag attribute that returns the real and imaginary part of the value, if viewed as a complex number:</br>

    x = 4.5
    print(x.real, "+", x.imag, 'i')

    4.5 + 0.0 i

Okay, until now it is understood that this essay will be about how sql works behind the curtains. but in what situations?</br>

The *streaming data* part comes now.

<h2>Streaming data</h2>

</br>
So someone has some source of information, and it generates information constantly.

You need that information. 

But you can't just wait for it to acumulate, because it has no end.

It just apears, continuously. like your instagram feed

Here is a definition from [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streaming_data):

    Streaming data is data that is continuously generated by 
    different sources. Such data should be processed incrementally 
    using stream processing techniques without having access to all 
    of the data.

# Conclusion
This essay/article is gonna be about the different solutions that exist in order to process this continuous data and how they work.